Okay now that we've looked at
feeding logistics regression curves
why don't we go ahead and see the output
when we feed our Ravens data.
So you feed the Ravens data
with the GLM function.
Here it operates just like
the LN function the outcome is
on the left hand side of a tilde and then
the predictors on the right hand side.
In this case the only difference is now we
have to specify family equals binomial,
and that's telling the GLM
function that we have 01 data.
If we had count data
the bounded count data,
real binomial data, then we would
also have to give it a sample size.
Also by default for
the binomial and binary case,
it's going to assume that
the link function that you have
is the logistical link function,
which is what we want so that's fine.
You see, the output when you do summary,
summary works just like it did for Ellen.
You see the output below.
You ge the coefficients,
in this case, -1.68 and for
the Ravens coefficient you use 0.1.
In this case on the Logit scale
you want to look, for example,
with the score variable, the Ravens score
variable you want to see whether or
not the coefficient is close to zero or
not on the Logit scale.
On the exponentiated scale you want to
see whether or not it's close to one.
That it'll give us the standard error and
a Z value and the P value,
we're going to interpret those just
like we would in our linear model to
acknowledging that this
are drive in a different way.
So here's the fitted curve,
so this are the predictive,
responses put back on
the probability scale.
So what R did is it plugged in the x
values associated with the coefficient.
So it took the scores, multiplied them
times the coefficient of the scores, added
the estimated intercept, and then took e
to that value over 1 plus e to that value.
And that gives us the probabilities.
Now this is only part of the fitted S
curve because the component of
the S curve where the data actually
are observed was restricted.
So the S curve up here is one so
the S curve looks something like this and
then it would go down so you'll notice
that this ends at 0.4 not zero.
So that's the actual curve that's fitting,
though here on the fitted values
we're only showing part of it.
If we were to exponentiate the ravens
coefficients we get 0.1864 for
the intercept and 1.1125 for the score.
So that suggests an 11% increase
in the probability of winning for every
additional points that the Ravens score.
Okay, that's how you would interpret
this logistic regression coefficient.
You can get confidence intervals for
these two coefficients very
easily with a confint operator.
So on the output from the fitted model, we
do confint, and then because most people,
myself included, would prefer to look at
these things on the exponentiated scale,
you just exponentiate two
endpoints with the x function.
So what we see now is that our
interval does contain one,
it goes from 0.99 to 1.3.
So it's saying that even though we for
sure know that scoring points is what
causes the Ravens to win the game,
this coefficient turns out
to not be significant, okay.
The ANOVA function works just like
it does in LM you put the output of
the fitted model and
you can put multiple models in there.
For example nested models and ANOVA will
give you a series of sequential tests.
And so here, in this case,
the variable is for the score,
just the one variable that
we're kind of interested in.
So it just has a one
Degree of Freedom test.
This isn't that useful in this particular
example, but if you had several
models that you were interested in
you'd put them into the ANOVA function.
Or I think also it is especially
useful if you have a factor variable,
because sometimes you want
the factor variable included or
the factor variable,
all levels of the factor variable removed.
Then you might want to test whether or
not that all levels of
them are in total
are necessary in the model.
Notice that when you do summary and
just get the coefficient table out from R,
that test each one of the levels
of the factor independently and
doesn't test them all as a whole.
So something like the ANOVA
function is useful for
putting a factor in and out of the model.
So for interpreting our odds ratios
remember that our odds ratios are not
probabilities they're
functions of probabilities but
they're not probabilities.
An odds ratio of one means no difference,
okay?
But on the Logit scale of the log
odds ratio zero means no difference.
In odds, [NOISE] often if we
have an odds ratio below 0.5 or
above two, that's considered,
I would consider it
a kind of strong effect.
It depends very context dependent so
if your working in the field of
epidemiology or something like that,
you often get very small odds ratios.
1.01 might be significant.
You're looking at giant studies and
the reason that these small odds ratios
are important is because they're studying
rather noisy things, like nutrition or
something like that.
How nutrition impacts health or
And you wind up with because of all
the various factors that incorporate,
influence this study, you end up with
very small odds ratios that are still
meaningful, even if significant.
On the other hand,
you might run a very tightly controlled
experimental clinical trial, or
something like that, and then the odds
ratios that you would want In order to
declare something kind of meaningful,
it would have to be much larger.
So again, this is just less than 0.5 or
bigger than two is a little
bit of a benchmark.
But remember, like all benchmarks,
we only have a certain amount of utility.
Really, how strong an odds ratio is
relative to the scientific setting
is incredibly dependent on the context
that you're looking at in.
So the relative risk is another
entity that's often thought of
in the same vein as the odds ratio,
and many people like it.
So the relative risk is just
the ratio of the two probabilities.
And many people like it because they tend
to instinctively think a little bit better
in terms of probabilities
rather than odds.
And relative probability seems
like a reasonable thing to do.
The problem with the Relative
risk unlike the Odds is,
it puts in some model constraints
there quite hard, so we don't see
relative risk regression for binary
variable it's a very common thing to do.
There are some software languages I
know are has some packages to do it.
It says has some packages to do it.
One thing that is pretty
common if you happen to have
small probabilities then the relative
risk approximates the odds ratios,
this is an old very classic result.
So that people go ahead and
fit the Odds Ratios but
then interpret them as if
they're relative risks.
So if you've seen that before then
that's where that's coming from.
So I give you couple more references
here on Odds Ratios, but I think that's
enough to get you started on generalizing
your models for binomial data.
I'm hoping that you can use all of your
knowledge you got from linear models and
help you work that into your use for
generalized linear models.
Next lecture,
we're going to consider Poisson data.
That's sort of the last
real lecture of the series.
Then we have kind of a some bonus
fun content it's the last lecture,
the very last lecture.
So I look forward to seeing you next week.
We're going to talk about
poison random variables.